
—
layout: post
title: “about”
date: 2016-12-25 19:12:07 -0800
categories: meta
---

# My Story

Year 2000 in a.sweating hot afternoon, I was in my home in Shanghai, just finished the 3rd grade and enjoying the summer vacation. Like every geeky kid I know, I grabbed all the chances to play with the computer. It was an Intel Pentium 2. So bulky and clumsy from today’s perspective but the coolest thing ever back then. I was surfing the Internet finding new Flash games to play as usual, and suddenly a link caught my attention — an online website incubator. 

A website incubator? Is that something I can use to build website like the one I’m browsing right now? That was my first “Aha” moment with web technology realizing that a website is something I could build. I signed up right away.

Then I was presented with the most ugly looking and difficult to use website builder ever. Just imagine 90’s web design with Windows Wizard logic — I had to jump back a forth to create every section I want on my website, and then click into each field to add content, and the form content gets lost when I accidentally click the “back” button in the browser… It was a horrible user experience, but the technology was so mind-blowing that the user experience **doesn’t even matter**. Jumped through a million hoops, I had a webpage online before dinner. 

It was probably a disastrous page with random styling and half-baked content, and I soon lost interest in building more pages from the incubator. There was only so much I could do within that interface anyway.

---- 

Fast forward to 2003, I got to 6th grade, and we had computer lessons in school. For 2 hours every week, the 12-year-old kids got to learn how to make a website — not with Microsoft FrontPage, not with Dreamweaver, but with **Notepad**. 

I am so grateful that my school understood the power of code way back when and basically forced all students into HTML ninjas in their early age. 

Type a bunch of HTML tags into Notepad, save it as an `.html` file, open it with the browser, and see it turn into a webpage was the second “Aha” moment for me in web development. 

This is how the web works — not from a bunch of limited input boxes, but from a list of concise instructions. And by learning those instructions, I am bounded by nothing but my own imagination. That single notion was so empowering that I decided to learn more about web development and never went back.

I soon became a master of table layout, marquee-ing and blinking all around. I also started to edit images with Microsoft Paint, and learnt Fireworks and Photoshop afterwards. 

---- 

1997 when I was in the first grade, we got our first computer in our home. It was a  Like everyone else, I was 

Website maker

Notepad -\> web page -\> table layout ninja

Divs and serious CSS